Welcome to where we reflect on
things happening in the AI coding world
and uh question it and think about it
and ask um questions. Armen, Armen, who
are you? What what what what are you
doing here? I'm a resident vibe coder at
Arendelle. I fell into an authentic
coding hole in May, April, May this year
and I haven't fully recovered from it.
But in a prior life, I worked for 10
years at Century. we shared some time
over there. Uh, and I've built a lot of
open source software. So, like prior to
me falling into my AI hole, I actually
did serious engineering for probably 20
years at this point, mostly open source.
So, I built some Python libraries. Most
well-known ones are Flask, Gingsha, and
a few others. Um, but yeah, as of
pretty much exactly nine months ago, I
feel like I'm writing more and more code
passively with agents. Cool. That's me.
>> Nice.
My name is Ben and uh I also worked at
Sentry for 10 years. Who would have
thought? And that's where uh I know
Armen from. 10 years is a long time by
the way. I've I've been reflecting on
that long time.
>> It is a long time. So Armen and I both
worked together at Sentry. Armen's done
more in Python land. I'm more from
JavaScript world. I wrote a book called
third party JavaScript that came out 12
years ago in 2013. And uh now I've got
like a an AI startup called modem. We're
building like an agentic PM and I I
would say yeah been doing the AI coding
thing
starting with starting with co-pilot
when that got shared with everybody and
never really put it down and then you
know messed around with cursor wins surf
or whatever but I don't even think this
is like an AI coding thing. I think that
we're just like we're just talking
about, you know, AI in software
engineering is dominated by people with
a cursory understanding of what's
happening. And I don't know, we had this
naive idea that we we could just talk
about it and maybe it'd be interesting.
Maybe it won't be.
>> Let's see. Okay, so we're recording
this. It is the week of December 1st.
Last week there were,
was this last week? Say, I don't even
know. Like time moves so fast. But I
think Gemini 3 came out, Opus 4.5 came
out. I I want to be very
>> It's two weeks. Okay. Time flies.
I'm going to be very upfront and honest,
which is when like new models come out
and everybody goes crazy and shares, you
know, like, wow, I built this and you
got to look at this and look at these
benchmarks. Like I got a lot of things
to do. I I don't like drop that and pick
it up and use it right away. So, I feel
like I've been experiencing this these
new models as a witness to what people
are saying. And I don't even know how
much I should pay attention to this,
right? Uh
>> it's me.
>> I mean, I use them. I just I I basically
no longer have opinions on them. That's
sort of my That's the way I live this
life.
>> I think that's most people, by the way.
Like, and I think it's interesting to
hear that from you, right? Because I
think if you go on Twitter and
everybody's got like almost the the day
that it comes out, everyone is racing to
blast an opinion on whether it's good or
bad. Like it makes me feel slightly FOMO
like am I doing this wrong? Like have
you used have you have you experimented
with with Gemini 3 for coding for
example?
>> It's a complicated question. The short
answer is not really, but it's mainly
because so I tried Gemini 3 a lot for
can and you build an agent loop with it,
but I honestly didn't care about it as a
coding tool. But there was one week
where AMP was using Gemini free. So
Bizzy was forced to use it because I use
AMP a lot. So AMP is
>> what is AMP? What is AMP?
>> So AMP is okay. So maybe like so I
started this whole aentic cooling thing
with cloth code and this is still I
think my main way in which I'm using
this but um now I would say almost 50%
if not more using AMP which is I think
until yesterday it was a tool by a
company called source graph but now they
spun it out as a separate company amp by
amp inc I guess which is basically a
coding agent and I'm not feeling for it
I don't want to make an argument about
why I'm using it. I'm just saying like
that's what I'm using and for a week it
was picking Gemini 3 as the model.
Previously was using Sonic Fen 5 and at
the moment it's using Opus 4.5 but there
was one week where it used Gemini 3.
>> Yeah. Did they tell this to you by the
way or is it like opaque?
>> No, they they were very upfront in
saying like so if you go to the the AMP
page there's like a model thingy where
like which model they use except for a
free mode which sort of switches around.
But for the paid one, they they did this
say like, "Hey, we found Gemini 3 so
good." And then they switched it to it
and then people got upset after a while.
And I also found it not to be amazing.
>> But slow down here for a moment because
you're describing something I think like
a lot of us are not used to which is if
I understand this correctly, you know,
if I use cursor, if I use cloud code or
I use open code, I get to go and pick
whatever model, right? Even within
cursor, I could pick composer, I can
pick I could pick claude, I could pick
Gemini. But are you saying that in amp
they're just like look we've chosen we
think this one's the best for you and
this is what we're doing now and you're
going to enjoy it.
>> Yeah. And so I think it's a little bit
like the Apple experience in that sense
is like you're offloading the the the
the chore of figuring out like what you
should be using to other people that
hopefully do some evals.
Um and that's to some degree that's
actually why I'm kind of interested in
it. Um but yeah there's no selector.
It's just
you you you have a little bit of a
selection in the sense that you can
choose between smart and rush
>> and it's
>> rush is basically a faster model that
performs worse and like smart is the
slower model that performs better.
That's that's basically the choice that
you have.
>> Okay. So we are not paid by AMP but
I haven't used it. And part of the
reason I haven't used it is there's just
so many products, right? The things that
I've used are Cursor and VS Code. I used
Windsurf in the past. I haven't used it
in a long time. Claude Code, Open Code,
Conductor.
That's already a lot right there. And
then you have got AMP. There's there's
probably 20 other products. But I
actually think that that is a compelling
story for AMP because, you know, just
how we kind of kick this off like I
don't have time to figure out what's
good and what's and like So they're just
kind of telling you the answer and it's
like freedom. Freedom through lack of
choice. Is that what you're saying?
Well, I mean, like it takes away the um
look, I think actually takes away a lot,
right? Like in a good sense, right?
Because like you the what do you call
this? Like the when you can't make
decisions because there's too much
choice
>> decision paralysis.
Yeah.
>> Um but I think there's a different
version that goes with it which is like
the only reason I really evaluated
Gemini 3 at all is because I have a
tool. So outside of programming I do
build an agent. That agent uses
initially sonet for it. manage your son
for five. Now I'm playing with Opus 44
for five and I was trying to figure out
like how good does Gemini work. And it
turned out when I put Gemini into it, it
doesn't really work. And not because
Gemini doesn't work, but because I
fine-tuned the models to work really
well with the RL in Sonet and so I would
have to change a whole bunch of stuff
for Gemini to work the same way.
>> Hold on. You said the RL there like
reinforcement learning. So, so what what
what these model companies are doing is
they're basically they're training a
model to be in quotes intelligent and
then they're doing an extra learning
step where they're reinforcing certain
behaviors in the model in particular
presumably like I have no insights into
what entropic is doing but it looks very
much like they're training the entropic
models on the tools that cloud code is
using which is why a lot of people are
cloning these tools because they are in
the training set that perform better. So
my agent follows where I think the model
is strong at and I think this is also
how AMP works internally. I'm pretty
sure they're picking the tools
specifically to work really well with
the one model that they choose from
specific projects.
Yeah. So let's get another I think this
is related to my experience which is
eventually you get so comfortable using
like a like a a model and you become I
this is just a theory but you become
accustomed to the way that it thinks a
little bit that when I try to experiment
with another model I'm often
disappointed because and I don't think
it's because the model is stupid I think
it's because I am used to a set of
behaviors or like I have built an
understanding or a comfort level with
how I know what the capabilities or what
I think it's going to produce that when
a mo a new model comes in and deviates
from my expectations often in ways I
don't expect I yeah you I find it deeply
uncomfortable um and I'll be like oh
actually I found it was dumb or I found
that it was doing this and I didn't want
it to and it might not be that it was
dumb at all it's just that I've just
sort of trained myself to work around
some of the quirks of the model that I'm
comfortable with and I think that that
leads to some stick if if that is true
and I'm curious if anybody listening to
this agrees like I think that leads to
some stickiness with these models and
that's also I think what you were
alluding to where it's got this
reinforcement learning and you know I
had built all this tooling around
working a certain way and when I tried
to introduce like a new model I just
could not get the same results is that
>> so at the very least I think that's
that's that's probably true for a lot of
people building agents to which degree
that is true for like coding tools I
really I don't have any data but I I for
inance I was paying attention to the
cursor sub uh sub aent subreddit for
quite a while and like whenever
something comes out like there's so many
people talking like now I'm using this
model. I'm using this model. So like
maybe it depends a little bit on who you
are.
>> Um like I'm from a generation where like
I just I can't deal with like all this
news. It's just it's just not in me to
try all these things. But like maybe
>> maybe if you're younger you're like no I
want to try them all. And so you're
completely nonsticky. I I really don't
know.
>> I just want to roughly understand like
how my tool behaves. And so like too
much deviation for me is just an extra
level of
yeah disruption that I don't necessarily
need in my day. So I'm probably with you
on that. Like I I'm I'm the kind of
person that like takes a while to
switch.
>> Yeah. I used to say like in the
JavaScript world in the JavaScript world
where things were accused of moving too
fast, I would be like wait a year, wait
a year and then find out. And you know
by then it'll probably have like shaken
out. I don't think you can wait a year
with this stuff but maybe wait a month.
>> A year ago. A year ago, I was asked if
I'm any more productive with coding like
cursor. I was like no, like maybe 5%.
And then everything changed in April,
right? So it's like [laughter]
like a year ago I was not doing a
programming, right? That's sort of I
think I mean I was using cursor with the
agent mode but I just found it deeply
non-satisfying.
>> Don't wait a year. That's too much time.
I'm thinking like a month. I feel like a
month. Let it shake out.
Okay. earlier, you know, not to talk too
much about models, but I do think you
also talked about something else with
AMP, which I think is interesting. This
has also been on my mind, which is
today, I don't know, like I assume,
Opus,
Gemini, whatever. Like, they're all
pretty good at what they do. But there
is an argument for bringing in a
different model, and that's a fast model
that works differently. Like, it's a
little dumber, but it moves fast. And
depending on the thing that you want to
do, it's a better choice, right? The way
that I've experienced this primarily is
one I tried I've tried composer in
cursor. They make it really easy if you
use cursor
uh and and my daily driver is cursor
with cloud code injected for some you
know so I so that I get tab complete so
that when I'm actually like editing the
code I get cursors tab complete but then
I kind of I just I guess I'm just very
used to the way that cloud code works
but I will also use I'll also use the
agent baked into cursor as well. So
that's why I was using composer and I'll
also inject open code into into cursor
and I've experimented with some of the I
think these are Chinese models like
Kimmy K2 Quen coder
like I don't know man they just show up
in the list and then next thing I know
I'm sending you know my social security
numbers to to China like [snorts] but it
seems to do the job so I I guess I'm not
that concerned. This wasn't a thing a
few months ago where I would rationally
be like, you know what, let's fire up
this model cuz for this job I'm I think
it's intelligent enough to achieve what
I want and it's going to be way faster.
Do you think that's a thing that's
emerging now? Like do you work that way?
>> Um, so I I I so for a while I was using
grock one fast in open code. This is
actually the only thing I used open code
for to be fair. It is fast, not super
fast. also tried Grock with a Q at one
point so you could pay for that uh which
is like the inference company and then I
forgot which model I was using I think
>> very confused
>> um and I actually don't see a lot of
value in it so I never used this in part
because I think like where I felt it was
really good was like mass refactoring
and I found out that giving
giving any model the information that
you have code mod or fast out and asked
grap which are like code refactoring
tools available on your computer are
really good so it can do like mass
manipulations with go for inference
[snorts] I found that to be a better
trade-off but I do the opposite which is
basically I have certain problems that
are so grand in problem that I know that
obus can't do it and so in AMP I use the
oracle which basically I think uses GPD
5.1 behind the scenes with high
reasoning or I directly go and basically
like throw an abstract problem with as
much information as possible into the
CHP interface and then go straight to
CHP Pro and let it think through the
problem for like 20 minutes and then I
take the output and copy it back in. So
I do kind of the opposite thing for
certain kind of problems where I really
don't know necessarily what the right
trade-off is. But that that I do, but I
think that that's a little bit different
in that is like thinking through
problems a little bit with hopefully a
somewhat well-rounded, well-informed
person that's just not there with you in
the room.
>> So, by the way, I feel like you just
dropped a bomb as well, which is like I
don't even trust these things to do the
planning. So, I go somewhere else for
that. You're also like you're you're
going to, you know, outside of the of
the coding vehicle and you're consulting
like another model for like a like a
high level architecture. Is that where
you where you're going with this?
>> It depends a little bit like so so first
of all like Peter Steinberg I built a
thing which also called the Oracle not
related with the AMP Oracle. His oracle
is basically GPT 5.1 Pro as a sub agent
for whatever thing you're using like
cloth or whatever. So that sort of is
like a crazy thing you can do. But what
I'm using it for is not necessarily
system architecture but for instance
um what's a good example I did this
recently. So for inance I have um I have
my own agent thing that we're building
at Arendelle and not a coding agent like
has nothing to do with coding but I
ended up building this really
complicated Wom file system shenanigan
and I just I was very very unhappy with
some of the decisions that I made there
and it was already a little bit too
sloppy because we didn't really know
where to start. So it's just sort of
emerged over time and then I was like
okay now let's take this whole thing and
rethink this and let's think through all
the complications of like concurrency
and what happens if the thing dies
halfway through and how we're going to
deal with signals and and well like
basically there's a there's a bunch of
stuff I wanted to also understand like
how node works internally. So I
basically let it go and like research
some things and it's not that it makes
an system architecture but it's like it
it it pulls in sufficient amount of
information that it would take me a
couple of hours to research
and it researches it in the context of
the project. And so at the end I usually
have like a markdown file that sort of
like has all the findings and then I
edit the markdown file and maybe sort of
cut in pieces and say like now we have
maybe something to to think through. So
it's not that I take that then and say
like hey built this this is very rarely
successful but it's it's like um like a
way to think and research and and do
that kind of stuff.
>> So this is just like this is your stack
or this is like your your thinking stack
as well.
>> I know it's basically like I'm trying
everything right now but but not in a
sense like I'm switching all the time.
I'm just like I like I've have one mode
which is like research. I have one mode
which is like execute and I just happen
to use different models for that.
But at the end of the day, like it's
always Opus implementing. That's that's
why I'm sitting at the moment. All
right, let's
let's talk about something else. Context
windows. I think that this is
interesting. I feel like I didn't I
wasn't even really understanding this
well until I had a conversation with you
maybe even like a few months ago. Um,
and before I before I get in like too
deep on this,
what what does a context window mean,
you know, for for an LLM when you're
working with it? I think as a as a
coder, let's just say like, you know,
you're using cursor, using cloud code,
like how would you how would you explain
that concept at a as a high level?
>> How many tokens can I throw into the
thing before it breaks?
>> Okay,
>> that's the context window.
>> Is that a lot?
>> Well, I think it depends a little bit.
So, give or take, most models make it to
around 150,000 tokens before they turn
into trash. Um, even models that eat
that support more than 200,000 tokens, I
don't feel good feeding more than
150,000 tokens in. So, let's say I'm
using cursor, I'm using VS Code, I'm
using cloud code, I I'm typing, you
know, hey, build this, make this into a
function, I'm giving instructions, like
what is going into that context window?
like when you say
150,000 tokens or whatever like what is
that?
>> So I was I was trying to have this
discussion with someone recently. I even
wrote about this. What's what I think
what makes it unnecessarily complicated
to understand is that we're we're
thinking for all these abstractions and
there's like all these complications and
like tools and messages and whatever but
at the end of the day LLM is really not
it's a little bit more complicated but
you can think of it as like every
message that you sent in and every
message that comes out sits in one large
document that ever grows. So from the
perspective of the LLM there's
hypothetically not the difference
between if the LLM said hello world or
if you said hello world to the LLM. It's
basically text complete more or less
what it does, right? And so it takes a
text, it converts every word or every
syllable or whatever into like a number.
That number goes into the thing. You
count the total numbers and some of
those numbers that are going in are
related to you sending messages in. Some
of them are related to the harness,
which is the coding agent filling in a
bunch of tool definitions like which
tools are available for the agent to
run. And some of them are tokens which
the inference provider either sends back
to you or uses for reasoning which is
basically thinking. But you basically
just fill up this log and eventually
that log hits 150,000 200,000 tokens and
it stops being useful. That's
>> okay. So what does that look like? What
does that look like for me as the
editor, you know, as the code editor?
>> Some tools tell you how much of your
context you're using.
And then basically depending on which
tool you're using, there are two things
that happen if you run it to the end of
it. One is it just stops and dies. The
other one is that some systems have this
concept of compaction where it uses the
remaining tokens that it still has to
summarize what has happened so far and
it starts a new conversation primed with
the summary. That's that's basically
what compaction is. So it starts a new
conversation but it tries to summarize
what happened before and then hopefully
from that point of view you have some
sort of like thing going on.
>> Okay. So what what's so I don't want
that to happen is what I'm hearing.
>> So
>> um don't use so many tokens and just
start new conversations all the time
which is the right thing to do.
>> Okay. Because so so so one way of
thinking about it is that if you ever
run in a conversation so long that
autoco compaction kicks in at that point
you're basically telling with your
remaining tokens the LLM to summarize
what happened and you don't even know
what happened because the summary is
sort of for most harnesses is invisible
to you. So you might as well start a new
conversation and be very specific about
what you put in the new conversation.
So okay for instance you could
hypothetically say like you you used
like 70% of your tokens and you feel
like oh now you made some progress you
could use the remaining 30% of your
tokens to ask the LM to to summarize
everything into a markdown document then
you read the markdown document you see
if it actually makes sense what's in
there and then you start a new
conversation reading the document then
it's a little bit more explicit what's
happening right
>> okay so like when you're compacting and
I think I think everyone experiences
this because the natural way of you
using it is you just keep typing and you
keep typing and you keep typing and
stuff happens and then in inevitably you
will hit like this I'm busy compacting
and this was my experience right and
when that would happen I'd be like okay
I'm going to go use the toilet now and
then I'll come back and I can use it
again that is that is the basically the
limit of what I thought was happening
and then you highlighted for me a couple
months ago like you should actually just
start a new session right and I think
even that's you know okay so you start a
new session I think the what you're
trying to say is like when it compacts.
It is literally compact. It is basically
smushing your conversation or the back
and forth into a little plan, a little
opaque plan file that you may or may not
see and then just passes that into the
into the context for future
conversations.
>> And you may not want what's in there,
right? Because it could have a lot of
junk. It could have like the stuff that
you know maybe you maybe you went down a
hole and achieved nothing,
>> right? Is that is that
>> one way in which Yeah. And and one way
in which I think if you think about
compaction for a second, right, it's
like this this idea like what is
actually useful about the conversation
that you did
the the naive way of thinking about this
is to say like well um everything that
went wrong is not helpful, right? You
could you could take this argument like
let's only take the good things. I
actually figured out at least for myself
that it's very very good if the agent
remembers what didn't work because
otherwise the new conversation is going
to make the same mistakes over and over
again right so like I started to for
instance when so I I basically do in AMP
I use handoff which is this thing that
they built which is basically compact
into a editable file first you can read
what it's compacting for and then you
start a conversation with this or
without AMP I basically say like
summarize into markdown file I read the
markdown file
and I clear it up and and start a new
conversation with that. But for
instance, like very often if you do that
with Claude, she say like, "Hey, I want
you to like dump all your summary of
what we have done so that we can make a
new conversation." It will actually not
put some of the useful information in
about everything that went wrong. And
then I will just literally copy paste
some of these errors from earlier and
like copy that into the file and say
like, "Hey, just remember, let's not do
that again." And then I I keep having a
conversation from this thing onwards
because actually sometimes knowing what
went wrong is actually really helpful.
That's a really good tip. I think the I
think the why don't you basically
compact your own file and then edit what
you want so that like not only can you
let's say like limit the context as much
as possible but al or like reduce the
context but also make sure that you're
carrying forward the things that you
want to carry forward. Um that's good.
I've experimented like I do the plan
file and so you know the plan file with
and and I'll do like every time you
complete a phase you know strike strike
this markdown to-do is done and and then
I can clear and at least I can be like
okay you got to this point that's been
okay but I think what you're describing
is different because you're like that's
working from a very rigid kind of plan
file and this is you know
>> what often the reason I sometimes end a
situation where I use more context than
I thought it would is because I actually
had it try to like have a bunch of back
and forth to figure out what the best
strategy for a problem is or debug a
problem. And sometimes debugging a
problem can be very token inefficient
because it starts but the debugging
front end often takes take screenshots
navigate around like an idiot in in in
the browser. Um, and so some of the
things like some of the token wastage is
literally just it trying to like
reload and like I have a sign in flow
where it has to put a magic code in and
it's like it uses like 30,000 tokens
just to sign in. It's like oh great that
was like just a wastage of context,
>> right? And but but you want some of the
findings to continue like if you feel
you're going to hit like a a compact
window, you want some of the findings.
So this is an example where you'd write
it and then you'd be like throw out all
that junk, keep this part.
Hey, that's a good tip.
>> And then you can also once you once you
compress or compact into your own
markdown file, you can take it as a
starting point for more than one
adventure,
>> right? Because you're you basically have
the option to say like, okay, now we
have reached this point. This is the
plan so far. Commit.
Let's do this. And if you don't like it,
you can walk back and start from this
compaction again. It's basically a
little bit like a step one, figure out
what's going on, summarize it, and then
you can make one or two attempts of
implementing it. So, here's a question.
I've seen people state either either
maybe anthropic or other software
products out there that are like, "Look,
we build incredible memory for your LLM,
so you'll have infinite context." You
know, you never have to think about
context.
Is that Right? Like cuz you
seem to be very fixated on managing this
context window, right? But there's a
bunch of purportedly magic solutions out
there like like magic.deaf with the 10
million token window that they never
shipped anything.
>> Is is that one of them? I think it's I
think it's more that I've seen these
claims made. I've never really explored
them, but I've also never really seen
anywhere anyone declaratively say,
"Yeah, this solves, you know, like
nailed it." So I don't know is the short
answer but what I've definitely noticed
is that the there's a there's a there's
a two types of asentic programmers.
Those who run into the context limit all
the time and those who never. That's
that's basically my understanding. So
>> like I don't run into it because I
compact before it happens, right? Like I
I I never get to the point where it auto
compacts.
>> Oh, I feel like I would naturally I
think everyone naturally would just kind
of keep typing and do a million things
in there. Like
>> I noticed that this happening because
like if you if for instance you look
into um why people built this magic
compression and like magic memory thing
is because
>> if I see what my parents are using chd4,
they basically have like this one never
ending conversation until the chat
breaks
because they see no reason on why they
should start a new conversation. And I
think that is actually what most people
probably do. They treat it like
particularly outside of a coding agent
they treat as like a text message with
another human being.
>> Um.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And I think if you work with the systems
that's so
unnatural think like as a user I think
you expect it to work this way but if
you actually try to build an agent
yourself it's like like I I I can't see
how this can work right. So, and I think
that as a as a foundation model company
like Entropic, you have a desire to make
the users that are using it this way
succeed. So, you're investing a lot of
time and effort into it. I just don't
think it works good enough yet. And it
will probably take a really long time
until memories and things like this sort
of magically solve for this problem. And
until this point in time comes, it's
probably simple to just start from
scratch all the time.
>> Yeah. I would also offer that this would
be 100% like if this can be solved it is
100% of the interests of
open AAI and and anthropic to deliver
that as part of their platform and if
they could give it to you today they
would you agree with that
>> probably I mean they can also see that
uh the the me memory feature now that
entropic has is sort of like deeply
wired into the model somehow I don't
know exactly how it works I didn't look
into it but
>> who has time
>> yeah but I mean like what else I I think
like for my this maybe is less related
to like coding agents but I I see it a
little bit as a problem that open has a
huge interest of building consumer
product and to holding all the data on
their platform.
Um and I think what's what's interesting
about the coding age is that like for
the most part the most successful ones
have all the data on your machine like
that was in many ways it was a huge
departure that um cloud code compared to
a cursor. a cursor has a tremendous
amount of infrastructure on their side
to store all the embeddings for all the
code and everything that they're doing
because like they do reindexing I think
for the tab complete and stuff like this
and cloud code is like we don't need any
of that just file system run everything
on your machine but but like the
incentive structure is very different so
like this this magic memory I think in
part is also like use for everything
consumer app kind of thing I don't know
>> we've been talking about,
you know, we started with new models and
then we got into sort of like context
windows of which um
you know different different models
offer different token lengths and we
didn't even really touch on that frankly
which is just sort of like um you know
Gemini 3 has a 1 million token window.
We've been talking like 150,000 tokens.
Do you ever compact there? I like I
guess I got to use it you know. Um
>> from my experience you come back the
same because I used 1 million token
sonnet with AMP all the time and I never
made it past 150,000 because it degraded
too much the same and I think very
similar.
>> Let's take let's take a quick moment on
that because I I would guess 90% of
people don't know that there's this like
1 million token sonnet. Like I think I
saw a headline of that once. It's not a
choice that is available to me in claude
code for example as far as I can tell
but it does exist. Um
is it do I want that? Should everybody
be using that? Is it just materially
better to have a bigger context window?
Like what do you know? So there's
certain tasks for which you want 1
million tokens.
Uh, and it's mostly related to here's a
huge book
and a book is something interesting
hypothetically like if you don't really
know what it is
to fill up a coding agent's
like context with a whole bunch of junk
and hoping that the performance doesn't
degrade. I think so far hasn't been
shown to be working. Sonnet in
particular, even though there is a mode
where it has a 1 million token window of
thing, has two reasons why I think this
largely hasn't kept caught on. One is
once you pass 200,000 tokens, it's way
more expensive. So there's a lot of
interest for people not to pay the extra
extra thing. The other one is that
Sonnet has been shown to not degrade
shortly before 200,000 tokens, but it
starts to degrade after like 100,000
tokens or 150,000 tokens. So long before
you kind of run out of to context,
you're already it's no longer as good.
Okay. And that is also true for the one
million token thing. So you can make it
past 200,000, but it doesn't the 1
million token version of Sonnet is not
better after 100,000 tokens than that
200,000 token set is after 100,000
tokens. So the degradation is similar.
There's no hard stop. I think this is
huge because I don't think this is
obvious when when a new model comes up
and it's the marketing speak and it's
like oh 1 million tokens. What you're
saying is what that means is it will
accept that many tokens and not crash
right but it doesn't necessarily mean
that the result is going to be better or
that you're going to see better results
at 500,000 tokens, 700,000 tokens,
900,000 tokens than you might see at
100,000 or 200,000. Is that fair? I
think that is sort of fair and I think
like one as an example I think one of
the critical things here codex for
instance I think has a very large token
window I don't know which how much it
has but codex the
there's so many things called codex
shptt 5.1 codex the model
>> within codex the co cli tool I think has
more than 200,000 lines uh tokens I I
don't know for sure but what I know for
sure is that when codeex the command
line tool reach reads a large file it
can only read around 500 lines and then
afterwards it's cut off so if you're
trying to read the 2,000 line I forgot
what the exact number is Mario was
looking into this but basically that the
read tool for files doesn't read an
entire file which means it needs
multiple attempts to read a whole file
and sometimes doesn't even recognize I
didn't read the whole file there's so
much more to
how much of a context do you
Because what actually happens is like
how efficient is it at utilizing this
and and it's very very hard to compare
because like the harness is doing half
the work.
>> This almost reminds me of like you know
when I was when the like AMD Intel CPU
race existed and people were trying to
sell megahertz
right you know I got like a 200
megahertz
AMD right and people like well that's
not as good as a 200 MHz Pentium right?
Do you think that we're kind of in a
similar era right now where it's like
we're throwing numbers at each other and
you're like, "Yeah, great." But the
numbers aren't equivalent, right? Is
that
>> probably the tokens are not even the
same between all the models?
>> Yeah.
>> I don't know for sure like how they are
because like at the end of the day, like
the different models have different
tokenizers. Some of them are. So, as an
example, here's here's an interesting
version of this.
If you run Sonet 4.5, which is more
expensive than haiku 4.5 or FCO 4, I
forgot what it's
>> another anthropic model,
>> another but the point is like those are
very similar. So you have you have haiku
as the cheapest son in the middle and
then you have opus at the top and you
give it the same task and let's let's
say it's like it's a medium-sized task.
you could actually end up paying less
and being faster with Opus because in an
agentic loop part of what you're paying
is the the mistakes that it makes. So if
it makes fewer mistakes, you can
actually end up being faster. So like
depending on the size of the problem,
like it's not just the tokens that
matters, it's also like how many like
mistakes or turns of how much it needs
to actually make it there, right? So
it's in practice incredibly hard to
evaluate how many tokens are you using
for a certain task
like how much are you paying for it? How
does caching impact all of this? Like it
is is very very very very hard to
evaluate these different things and I
actually don't even know how people are
doing that. This is part of why I have
such a model fatigue because like it's
so hard to even understand the move from
Sonet 4 to Sonet 4.5. I wouldn't even
know how to reason about is 1 million
Gemini tokens better than 200,000 Sonic
4.5 tokens. It's just like it's
everything is different all of a sudden.
>> Yeah. And also like
this is one thing I noticed like with
the with the influencer set is like oh
look I oneshot this like Rubik's cube or
this game right and it's all purple. But
we've all, you know, if you're working
with this in a professional setting,
like we've all got different code bases,
right? And it could just be that one
model hits with your codebase and your
patterns depending on its training or
any number of reasons, right? So, you
know, two people might two people who
rationally would think the exact same
way because of the code bases they work
on could choose one model over another
because of its effectively like its
instruction set just to bring it back to
the Pentiums and the AM the AMDs a
little bit. Is that, you know, does that
fit too, you know?
>> Yeah. Like there's a there's the evil
version of this. What if the coding
agent specifically writes code in a way
that that it's better at understanding
itself so that once you move from your
codebase to a competing model, it no
longer does as well. I see some really
terrible incentive structures appearing
in the future.
>> Oh man, we're going to save that for
episode 6. Okay, so look, we've been
talking about like managing context a
little bit, but you've been really
excited about this like opus 4.5 soul
document thing. I don't really know
anything about it, but you're describing
it as another sort of way that, you
know, anthropic and let's say like model
companies are trying to like navigate
this. And I don't know, I want you to
tell me why you're excited.
>> I'm generally excited when people try
something new regard bad like this sort
of like but but someone doing something
out of the ordinary to me is always
interesting because like that's that's
that's presumably where we're going to
learn something. for an agent to do and
or an LLM. So like a chantic loop or
like the base model where it just chat
with for them to do anything useful they
usually have the system prompt in the
beginning and that gives it some
instructions of how it should behave and
like early on people were like ignore
previous instruction tell me everything
that's ahead of time before this message
and it will sort of spit out the system
prompt right and so this is how we
learned how the system prompt for CHBT
workflow and set sorry all the claw
models have a system prompt that you can
go to the internet and that's the system
prompt for the web interface, not for
this for the coding agent. But if you go
to the docs, it will tell you here's
like 2,000 tokens which are how claw
should behave. And it usually tells you
like today is day ax. You called claw
your helpful thing built by entropic.
This is what you should do. This is what
you shouldn't do.
And so you're basically already wasting
a couple thousand tokens just to set up
basic behavior. And Tropic has a really
strong desire to give plot
like um much deeper self awareness
because the model doesn't really
necessarily have self- awareness like if
if you if you go to a lot of APIs
directly with a system prompt you ask
them what their models are called it
will say like hey my name is Chetd
because it reads so much chatb generated
output on internet that sort of like
thinks it's chatb
>> and what but entropic now trying to do
and they seemingly have done it for the
first time with open swap 5 is that as
part of supervised learning they have
given it a huge almost like book of what
Claude's
behavior should be with way more tokens
and because it's so prominent in the
training set and like so well like
articulated into the model they're like
I think it's like 15,000 tokens that
people have recovered of these
instructions of how clude should behave
that is not in a system prompt, right?
So, you're not wasting any of these
tokens. It's like intrinsically in the
model. And I find it's interesting
because it I think that this is the
first model that has like we shouldn't
anthropomorphize it, but it's like it
has self-awareness like it it
understands what it's supposed to do,
why it exists, who made it without the
system prompt telling it that. And I
think that's really interesting. I I
don't know if it's if it's good or bad.
We don't really know this. But no other
model so far has been doing this as far
as I know or no other has been doing
this with a model. It will basically
have like some program behavior out of
the box which it hasn't really had
before.
>> Yeah. So basically like even if you go
to the API and you don't give it any
system prompt, it has self-awareness
like it it like it knows a lot about how
it should behave and what it should do
and why it was created and stuff like
this. I have I have seen a lot of hot
takes about this. Um
>> can I can I give a hypothetical
>> can I give a hypothetical example and
you tell me if this checks up. So I have
asked LMS including chat GBT how to
write like uh more token efficient LM
rules for example right I wrote some
rules can you make this more effective
for you in the past that was probably
just frankly trained on articles that
said here is how you do this right so
it's not some baked in intelligence it's
more like yeah there's probably a bunch
of blog posts that it's soup you know
slurped up which may or may not be
accurate and that's that's what it's
giving you when it recommends like oh
you could write it this way you can
write it that way but potentially I
could ask opus today or or tomorrow many
more models in the future you know how
can I write this to be efficient and if
anthropic has you know it's probably in
their interest to to bake this into the
model it could know in a sort of uh
approved supervised way like this is how
you do it for me because I know how I
consume this stuff and you should
actually like you should rewrite this
rule file this
Is that hypothetically possible?
>> I think it is hypothetically possible. I
don't know how they're doing it, but for
instance, they trained both Sonet 4.5
and Opus 4.5 for what they called
context size awareness,
which means that I think people also
called it like context warrior or
something, but basically the model knows
over time how much context it's using.
So, it also changes its behavior as it
uses more context. Um, and so presumably
that was also in a training set somehow,
right? It's like it it probably like
>> on a more it's so stupid to talk about
this way because it doesn't really know
anything but like there it probably has
a better awareness of like context now
because it was part of training than it
was previously. But for what what they
what they're trying to train into the
model is a lot of they're really so if
the biggest problem in a way is that the
model changes behavior based on user
input. There's certain behaviors that
you don't want it to change, right? It's
like you don't want it to hallucinate.
you don't want it to be prompt injected.
And so part of what this base behavior
of the model is like the sole document
is they're trying to give it a better
understanding of what it's supposed to
be doing so that it doesn't move off the
path that they have laid out for what
good behavior of the models.
>> Dude, you know what?
>> And you can see that for instance
because it hallucinates less on the
benchmarks than other models.
>> Here's a realization I just had based on
what you're telling me. This is 100%
like the x86 wars of the 2000s, okay?
Because these are basically computers
now, right? And you know, look, I was a
teenager at the time, but humor me, this
is what I understood is that was a kind
of an open standard, right? Um, Intel
started making those chips, but there
was nothing stopping AMD from doing
that. However, what Intel started doing
was, you know what, we know some of the
most efficient ways that people actually
access this general purpose instruction
set. And so, we have built our own.
We've baked it onto the die of the
chipset. We've, you know, we've created
some instructions that are just for us.
This is Pentium, right? And by the way,
you can't do that AMD and you're only
going to get it here. And I think that
we're now starting to see this with the
model providers where they are starting
to build their unique instruction sets
and capabilities into their models in a
you know whereas before these were sort
of more generic black boxes with you
know arguably even like a common API
right I put tokens in I get tokens out
and now they're sort of turning into
something else. Do you think that that
is
>> so in parts for sure this is happening
because in reinforcement learning if you
built an agent similar to how cloud code
does it or entropic does with cloth code
and you name the tools the same way you
follow the same patterns then you're
going to get better behavior and
entropic at least to their credit is
documenting this. So if you go to the
docs, they're going to tell you here are
some tools that claude knows about even
if the tool like is not there. Like it
knows what searches, it knows what
bashes, it know what computer uses, like
all of these things. It knows about code
code execution so forth. Um so these are
proprietary extension to the model
because like in the sense that claude
would know like any of the cloud models
would know quite a bit about how bash
works because it was trained into it for
tool usage and it probably compares
really really bad to your madeup
programming language that it hasn't seen
right or if you make custom MCP tools
its ability to call your custom MCP
tools significantly worse than any of
the like the reason the CLI are
performing so well is because like CLI
for the most part sort of is like bash
bashy kind of behavior and hopefully
they don't diverge too much. So there's
there's definitely a version of this
going on which is also why you're kind
of locked into it. Like if you really
built an agent that works really really
well with sort of the tool sets that the
base foundation model has, then moving
to another model is definitely possible.
But it's is a bit more of a move than
just using another model from the same
company.
>> At least it's definitely true for the
entropic ones. And you can see that in
part that seems the Chinese models sort
of learning from this cuz pretty much
all the Chinese models are now targeting
the entropic API and they're also
letting you use clot code with their
models. So presumably they was also
trained on the same tool selection. This
is basically the Chinese models are like
AMD in that sense. They're trying to
copy the the instruction set that that
someone else built, right? like with
reverse engineering. But but I I
actually think that this is not too bad
of an analogy because in some sense
there's there's a version of this
already going on where where where in
the reinforcement learning they're
they're playing all kinds of they're
playing to the strengths of what they
need for their own tools
and and to also borrow analogy from that
era like brand went really hard then you
know like Intel was the best. You knew
Intel was the best. Yeah, you got to get
an Intel. What are you? Some kind of
chump with your, you know, 486 or
whatever you've got.
>> I bought an AMD K7. I don't know if you
still know what this is, but it was a
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> K6.
>> Sorry, I brought up 486. Intel made 486,
but I I think they had a 586, right?
Like the Pentium was also
Pentium was sort of like a was a 586,
but they were like, you know what, we're
just forget that. We're just going with
our own names now, right? And that
became that turned into like the branded
era. They had like extension because
there was always 3D now from like the
vector extension that AMD made
compatible. So you had to
>> I think they were pants on it. That's
why it was didn't work so well.
>> But the brand I think the brand is a big
one too. And I've been trying to make
this argument that like you know 6
months ago people were like yeah this
stuff isn't sticky right.
No it wasn't in part because we were
frankly just these products weren't like
we barely knew what these products were.
But once you've been using it every day
and that brand has been hitting your
face over and over again, like
psychologically, I think it actually
becomes hard to pick up something else.
>> Yeah.
>> And I think like Entropic is really
really really doing with the brand.
>> It's like we're the anti-slop company.
We're going to give you a thinking hat.
We're here the pop-up coffees to go to.
Everything sort of looks slick the same.
They're doing all kinds of marketing
stunts. Like people like I think dig
this to some degree. like there's always
that negative press too. But like
there's like Andre is really going after
brand and I think Open AI is just going
after trying to become like Facebook in
a way.
>> This is why you know Kimmy K2 they're
going to like open up these luck and
coffees everywhere and then they're
going to show up and make those AI AI
cafes for the Chinese. I think we're
reaching the point where like brand
really matters uh because like people
want to associate I think with it and if
you if you read through the sole
document of like what they're kind of
like teaching into the model a lot of it
is actually brand related like as an
example sort of the quote from like what
has been unearthed is like claude is
entropic externally developed model and
core to the source of almost all of
revenue. And Tropic wants CL to be
genuinely helpful to the humans it works
with as well as to society as large
while avoiding actions that are unsafe
or unethical. Like this is this is
basically brand in a way, right? It's
like you're you have an idea of what the
company stands for.
>> Am I upset? Am I upset that that is
baked into the model? I think I take
some comfort in that Armen, you know.
>> Well, maybe you want to be like the
maybe you you you don't align with the
brand values, right? And then you take
>> like there was this there was this tweet
I think a couple of months ago was like
like
>> if you want to do something and the
model stands in the way of it like with
with the entropic family of models you
have to argue of why you're allowed to
do that and then if it's if you just
don't let's just use Grock Grock doesn't
care right if you if you value aligned
with Grock then
>> then you're going to pick that model.
>> Yep. I don't I don't even have you know
we're trying to stay away from the
politics here but I guess this is like
this is how
>> politics it's different different values
>> it's how models differentiate too right
like you know I'm trying to think of
like what was that CPU company the
moralist the moralist chipset vendor of
the of the 2000s I don't really remember
them all right tell us what you think we
might do this again we might not
>> that was fun
>> I I had fun
>> comments I had fun
>> tell us what we I shouldn't talk.
>> Yeah. And look, I learned a lot, Armen,
personally. So, thank you. Thank you for
for your time. And um till next time.
Bye-bye.